README.md, before:

# Virtual Book's Library #

Books are important for the mind, heart, and soul. People always will be reading books. Due to enourmous amount of them in the world, Virtual Book's Library will help book lovers to keep their favourite books in one place.

# UX #

## Strategy plane ##
The aim of the project is to create an interactive book's library that would be fully responsive on all devices and screens. The 
target will be all aged love readers, so website should be simple to understand and easy to navigate.

## Scope plane ##
The library will be styled in a minimalistic design. It will allow users to log in and log out of app, add books which they already read with full description of the book. Also they can browse through other customers books and find new books. 

## Structure plane ##
The main page will have list of books on the website, entered by all users. User will be able to log in, by pressing login button and view his profile. He will be able to add new books manually with Name of the book, Author, pages, year of publicity and small book description. 

## Skeleton plane ##
All website will be created in same design. 

The wireframe for [mobile version](https://____) and [desktop version](https://____) of the APP.

## Surfuce plane ##


# User Stories: #
1. As a user, I would like to have my personal profile.
2. As a user, I would like to update books description after reading it.
3. As a user, I would like to browse through books on the website.
5. As a user, I would like to delete books.
6. As a user, I would like to log out from my profile.

Mockup
[![responsive.png](https://____.png)](https://______)

The live version of project you can see [here.](https://____)

# Features #

### Existing features ###
Website has a simple structure and minimalistic design.



### Future features ###
Wish List, purchase link


# Technology used #
- HTML 
- CSS (the language to style HTML and make bootstrap more individual)
- JavaScript
- jQuery

- Gitpod
- GitHub
- MongoDb
- Heroku
- Flask
- Jinja
- Werkzeug
- Materialize

- Chrome DevTools
- Jshint
- W3C school
- W3C mark up validation service (to test HTML and CSS)

# Testing #
- HTML tested with W3C mark up validation service. I had some syntax issue only due to jinja template been used to build all pages.
- CSS have been tested with W3C mark up validation service, error been showed:[Error.png](https://postimg.cc/Mnn7jBJG). After removing shadow from element, no errors was found.

- Javascript code passed in Jshint with no major issues, one undefined variable found - $.
- Project's responsiveness checked on iPhone, Google Chrome, Microsoft Edge and worked perfectly.

# Manual Testing #


## Testing user stories ##
1. As a user, I would like to have my personal profile.
2. As a user, I would like to update books description after reading it.
3. As a user, I would like to browse through books on the website.
5. As a user, I would like to delete books.
6. As a user, I would like to log out from my profile.

### Issues ###


# Deployment #
### Managing Git ###
1. I started with creating a local git repo using the command `git init`; 
2. I then added to my local repo using `git add .`;
3. And then commit them to my local repo using `git commit -m "message"`;
4. Once that was done I push my local repo to the remote (Github) using `git push`.

### GitHub Pages ###
I deploy my website in these following steps:
1. Log in on GitHub;
2. Navigate to needed repositary;
3. Click Setting on the right corner under repositary name;
4. Scroll down to GitHub Pages;
5. Click None and choose Master Branch;
6. Click Save and link will be created that says "Your site is published at ...".

### Cloning a repositary ###
If you would like to clone a repositary follow theese steps:
1. Log in on GitHub;
2. Navigate to needed repositary;
3. Above the list of the files, click green button Code;
4. On the dropdown selection, you will find a link to clone the code with HHTPS;
5. Open Git Bash;
6. Open new location where you want to clone repositary;
7. Type git clone, and then paste the URL you copied earlier.
8. Press Enter.

### Heroku deployment ###

# Credits # 
Project been made with idea and guidelines of Tim Nelson and his mini project of Task Manager on Code Institute programme. 

### Content ###
1. https://unsplash.com/ - photo
2. https://www.amazon.co.uk/books-used-books-textbooks/b?ie=UTF8&node=266239

### Acknowledgements ###
My mentor Spencer Barriball for his support.
















![CI logo](https://codeinstitute.s3.amazonaws.com/fullstack/ci_logo_small.png)

Welcome VKirijanova,

This is the Code Institute student template for Gitpod. We have preinstalled all of the tools you need to get started. You can safely delete this README.md file, or change it for your own project. Please do read it at least once, though! It contains some important information about Gitpod and the extensions we use.

## Gitpod Reminders

To run a frontend (HTML, CSS, Javascript only) application in Gitpod, in the terminal, type:

`python3 -m http.server`

A blue button should appear to click: _Make Public_,

Another blue button should appear to click: _Open Browser_.

To run a backend Python file, type `python3 app.py`, if your Python file is named `app.py` of course.

A blue button should appear to click: _Make Public_,

Another blue button should appear to click: _Open Browser_.

In Gitpod you have superuser security privileges by default. Therefore you do not need to use the `sudo` (superuser do) command in the bash terminal in any of the lessons.

To log into the Heroku toolbelt CLI:

1. Log in to your Heroku account and go to *Account Settings* in the menu under your avatar.
2. Scroll down to the *API Key* and click *Reveal*
3. Copy the key
4. In Gitpod, from the terminal, run `heroku_config`
5. Paste in your API key when asked

You can now use the `heroku` CLI program - try running `heroku apps` to confirm it works. This API key is unique and private to you so do not share it. If you accidently make it public then you can create a new one with _Regenerate API Key_.

## Updates Since The Instructional Video

We continually tweak and adjust this template to help give you the best experience. Here is the version history:

**May 10 2021:** Added `heroku_config` script to allow Heroku API key to be stored as an environment variable.

**April 7 2021:** Upgraded the template for VS Code instead of Theia.

**October 21 2020:** Versions of the HTMLHint, Prettier, Bootstrap4 CDN and Auto Close extensions updated. The Python extension needs to stay the same version for now.

**October 08 2020:** Additional large Gitpod files (`core.mongo*` and `core.python*`) are now hidden in the Explorer, and have been added to the `.gitignore` by default.

**September 22 2020:** Gitpod occasionally creates large `core.Microsoft` files. These are now hidden in the Explorer. A `.gitignore` file has been created to make sure these files will not be committed, along with other common files.

**April 16 2020:** The template now automatically installs MySQL instead of relying on the Gitpod MySQL image. The message about a Python linter not being installed has been dealt with, and the set-up files are now hidden in the Gitpod file explorer.

**April 13 2020:** Added the _Prettier_ code beautifier extension instead of the code formatter built-in to Gitpod.

**February 2020:** The initialisation files now _do not_ auto-delete. They will remain in your project. You can safely ignore them. They just make sure that your workspace is configured correctly each time you open it. It will also prevent the Gitpod configuration popup from appearing.

**December 2019:** Added Eventyret's Bootstrap 4 extension. Type `!bscdn` in a HTML file to add the Bootstrap boilerplate. Check out the <a href="https://github.com/Eventyret/vscode-bcdn" target="_blank">README.md file at the official repo</a> for more options.

---

Happy coding!

Commit message:

fix error: mistake in app.py, could not register new user while testing

README.md, after:

# Virtual Book's Library #

Books are important for the mind, heart, and soul. People always will be reading books. Due to enourmous amount of them in the world, Virtual Book's Library will help book lovers to keep their favourite books in one place.

# UX #

## Strategy plane ##
The aim of the project is to create an interactive book's library that would be fully responsive on all devices and screens. The 
target will be all aged love readers, so website should be simple to understand and easy to navigate.

## Scope plane ##
The library will be styled in a minimalistic design. It will allow users to log in and log out of app, add books which they already read with full description of the book. Also they can browse through other customers books and find new books. 

## Structure plane ##
The main page will have list of books on the website, entered by all users. User will be able to log in, by pressing login button and view his profile. He will be able to add new books manually with Name of the book, Author, pages, year of publicity and small book description. 

## Skeleton plane ##
All website will be created in same design. 

The wireframe for [mobile version](https://____) and [desktop version](https://____) of the APP.

## Surfuce plane ##


# User Stories: #
1. As a user, I would like to have my personal profile.
2. As a user, I would like to update books description after reading it.
3. As a user, I would like to browse through books on the website.
5. As a user, I would like to delete books.
6. As a user, I would like to log out from my profile.

Mockup
[![responsive.png](https://____.png)](https://______)

The live version of project you can see [here.](https://____)

# Features #

### Existing features ###
Website has a simple structure and minimalistic design.



### Future features ###
Wish List, purchase link, show how many charactares person must enter on log in or register


# Technology used #
- HTML 
- CSS (the language to style HTML and make bootstrap more individual)
- JavaScript
- jQuery

- Gitpod
- GitHub
- MongoDb
- Heroku
- Flask
- Jinja
- Werkzeug
- Materialize

- Chrome DevTools
- Jshint
- W3C school
- W3C mark up validation service (to test HTML and CSS)

# Testing #
- HTML tested with W3C mark up validation service. I had some syntax issue only due to jinja template been used to build all pages.
- CSS have been tested with W3C mark up validation service, error been showed:[Error.png](https://postimg.cc/Mnn7jBJG). After removing shadow from element, no errors was found.

- Javascript code passed in Jshint with no major issues, one undefined variable found - $.
- Project's responsiveness checked on iPhone, Google Chrome, Microsoft Edge and worked perfectly.

# Manual Testing #
Home page have a list of books, already added by users. By clicking on the book name, container collapse down and show extra information about the book. On right side you have Home, Log In and Register button, on mobile version buttons hiding in hamburger button.
Press Log In button it will redirect you to log in page with form which require Username and Password. Both input areas are mandatory and will turn red if left empty. If user will log in wrong username or password, flash message will pop in with message "Incorrect Uername and/or Password". Username and Password have minimum of 5 caracters, which indicates with message "Match the requested format" if you type less than 5. After entering right username and password, press Log In button, it is redirecting user to their profile page.
Press Register button it will redirect to register page with form. Username and Password have minimum of 5 caracters, which indicates with message "Match the requested format" if you type less than 5. After succesfully choosing new username and pasword, Sign Up botton will redirect user to their created profile page with flash message 

## Testing user stories ##
1. As a user, I would like to have my personal profile.
2. As a user, I would like to update books description after reading it.
3. As a user, I would like to browse through books on the website.
5. As a user, I would like to delete books.
6. As a user, I would like to log out from my profile.

### Issues ###


# Deployment #
### Managing Git ###
1. I started with creating a local git repo using the command `git init`; 
2. I then added to my local repo using `git add .`;
3. And then commit them to my local repo using `git commit -m "message"`;
4. Once that was done I push my local repo to the remote (Github) using `git push`.

### GitHub Pages ###
I deploy my website in these following steps:
1. Log in on GitHub;
2. Navigate to needed repositary;
3. Click Setting on the right corner under repositary name;
4. Scroll down to GitHub Pages;
5. Click None and choose Master Branch;
6. Click Save and link will be created that says "Your site is published at ...".

### Cloning a repositary ###
If you would like to clone a repositary follow theese steps:
1. Log in on GitHub;
2. Navigate to needed repositary;
3. Above the list of the files, click green button Code;
4. On the dropdown selection, you will find a link to clone the code with HHTPS;
5. Open Git Bash;
6. Open new location where you want to clone repositary;
7. Type git clone, and then paste the URL you copied earlier.
8. Press Enter.

### Heroku deployment ###

# Credits # 
Project been made with idea and guidelines of Tim Nelson and his mini project of Task Manager on Code Institute programme. 

### Content ###
1. https://unsplash.com/ - photo
2. https://www.amazon.co.uk/books-used-books-textbooks/b?ie=UTF8&node=266239

### Acknowledgements ###
My mentor Spencer Barriball for his support.
















![CI logo](https://codeinstitute.s3.amazonaws.com/fullstack/ci_logo_small.png)

Welcome VKirijanova,

This is the Code Institute student template for Gitpod. We have preinstalled all of the tools you need to get started. You can safely delete this README.md file, or change it for your own project. Please do read it at least once, though! It contains some important information about Gitpod and the extensions we use.

## Gitpod Reminders

To run a frontend (HTML, CSS, Javascript only) application in Gitpod, in the terminal, type:

`python3 -m http.server`

A blue button should appear to click: _Make Public_,

Another blue button should appear to click: _Open Browser_.

To run a backend Python file, type `python3 app.py`, if your Python file is named `app.py` of course.

A blue button should appear to click: _Make Public_,

Another blue button should appear to click: _Open Browser_.

In Gitpod you have superuser security privileges by default. Therefore you do not need to use the `sudo` (superuser do) command in the bash terminal in any of the lessons.

To log into the Heroku toolbelt CLI:

1. Log in to your Heroku account and go to *Account Settings* in the menu under your avatar.
2. Scroll down to the *API Key* and click *Reveal*
3. Copy the key
4. In Gitpod, from the terminal, run `heroku_config`
5. Paste in your API key when asked

You can now use the `heroku` CLI program - try running `heroku apps` to confirm it works. This API key is unique and private to you so do not share it. If you accidently make it public then you can create a new one with _Regenerate API Key_.

## Updates Since The Instructional Video

We continually tweak and adjust this template to help give you the best experience. Here is the version history:

**May 10 2021:** Added `heroku_config` script to allow Heroku API key to be stored as an environment variable.

**April 7 2021:** Upgraded the template for VS Code instead of Theia.

**October 21 2020:** Versions of the HTMLHint, Prettier, Bootstrap4 CDN and Auto Close extensions updated. The Python extension needs to stay the same version for now.

**October 08 2020:** Additional large Gitpod files (`core.mongo*` and `core.python*`) are now hidden in the Explorer, and have been added to the `.gitignore` by default.

**September 22 2020:** Gitpod occasionally creates large `core.Microsoft` files. These are now hidden in the Explorer. A `.gitignore` file has been created to make sure these files will not be committed, along with other common files.

**April 16 2020:** The template now automatically installs MySQL instead of relying on the Gitpod MySQL image. The message about a Python linter not being installed has been dealt with, and the set-up files are now hidden in the Gitpod file explorer.

**April 13 2020:** Added the _Prettier_ code beautifier extension instead of the code formatter built-in to Gitpod.

**February 2020:** The initialisation files now _do not_ auto-delete. They will remain in your project. You can safely ignore them. They just make sure that your workspace is configured correctly each time you open it. It will also prevent the Gitpod configuration popup from appearing.

**December 2019:** Added Eventyret's Bootstrap 4 extension. Type `!bscdn` in a HTML file to add the Bootstrap boilerplate. Check out the <a href="https://github.com/Eventyret/vscode-bcdn" target="_blank">README.md file at the official repo</a> for more options.

---

Happy coding!
